
HSBC Purchasing Managers’ Index™ Press Release                            
Embargoed until: 10:30 (BEIJING), 24 October 2011 

            

 HSBC Flash China Manufacturing PMI™ 
   

Chinese manufacturing output rises at sharpest rate since April 
  

 

• Flash China Manufacturing PMI™ at 51.1

 (49.9 in September). 5-month high. 

• Flash China Manufacturing Output Index at 

 51.7 (50.3 in September). 6-month high. 

Data collected 12–20 October.  

The HSBC Flash China Manufacturing Purchasing 
Managers’ Index™ (PMI™) is published on a monthly 
basis approximately one week before final PMI data 
are released, making the HSBC PMI the earliest 
available indicator of manufacturing sector operating 
conditions in China. The estimate is typically based on 
approximately 85%–90% of total PMI survey 
responses each month and is designed to provide an 
accurate indication of the final PMI data. 

China Flash Manufacturing PMI™ Summary   

50.0 = no change on previous month (seasonally adjusted) 
  
P MI                                              
Output                      

New Orders 

New Export Orders                     

Employment                      

Backlogs of Work 

Output Prices                       

Input Prices                      

Stocks of Purchases 

Stocks of Finished Goods      

Quantity of Purchases             

Suppliers’ Delivery Times        

Expansion, change of direction 

Expansion, faster rate 

Expansion, change of direction 

Expansion, change of direction 

No change 

Expansion, faster rate 

Inflation, faster rate 

Inflation, slower rate 

Contraction, slower rate 

Contraction, slower rate 

Expansion, faster rate 

Lengthening, faster rate 

             

Commenting on the Flash China Manufacturing PMI 
survey, Hongbin Qu, Chief Economist, China & Co-
Head of Asian Economic Research at HSBC said: 

“Thanks to the pick-up in new orders and output, 
the headline flash PMI rebounded back into 
expansionary territory during October, marking a 
steady start to manufacturing activities in 4Q. 
Meanwhile, inflation components within the PMI 
results confirmed stable output prices growth and 
slower input price inflation. All these data confirm 
our view that there is no risk of a hard landing in 
China.”      
 

 

                                                                                  

 

2008 2009 2010 2011
10

20

30

40

50

60

70

80

90

Output Charges/Input Prices

Output Charges
Input Prices

25

30

35

40

45

50

55

60

65

New Business/Exports

New Orders
New Export Business

40

45

50

55

60

50 =  no change on previous month
Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI)

40

45

50

55

60

Employment/Backlogs of Work

Employment
Backlogs of W ork

35

40

45

50

55

60

65

Production

 

 

 

 



 

 

For further information, please contact: 

 

HSBC        

Hongbin Qu, Chief Economist, China & Co-Head  Diana Mao, Head of Group Communications, China 

of Asian Economic Research    Telephone +86 21-3888-1251 

Telephone +852-2822-2025    Email dianayqmao@hsbc.com.cn 

Email hongbinqu@hsbc.com.hk     

 

Markit 

Alex Hamilton, Economist     Rachel Harling, Corporate Communications 

Telephone +44-1491-461-076    Telephone +44-20-7064-6283 

Email alex.hamilton@markit.com    Mobile +44-782-789-1072    

       Email rachel.harling@markit.com 

Notes to Editors: 

Final October data are published on 1 November 2011. 

The HSBC China Report on Manufacturing is based on data compiled from monthly replies to questionnaires sent to purchasing 
executives in over 420 manufacturing companies. The flash estimate is typically based on approximately 85%–90% of total PMI 
survey responses each month and is designed to provide an accurate advance indication of the final PMI data.  

The average differences between the flash and final PMI index values (final minus flash) since comparisons were first available in 
January 2008 are as follows (differences in absolute terms provide the better indication of true variation while average differences 
provide a better indication of any bias): 

 Average Average difference 
  Index  difference in absolute terms 
 HSBC China Manufacturing PMI 0.0 0.6 
 HSBC China Manufacturing Output Index 0.1 1.0 

 

The panel is stratified by Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) group and company size, based on industry contribution to Chinese 
GDP. Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current month compared to the previous month based on data collected 
mid-month. For each of the indicators the ‘Report’ shows the percentage reporting each response, the net difference between the 
number of higher/better responses and lower/worse responses, and the ‘diffusion’ index. This index is the sum of the positive 
responses plus a half of those responding ‘the same’. 

The Purchasing Managers’ Index™ (PMI™) is a composite index based on five of the individual indexes with the following weights: 
New Orders - 0.3, Output - 0.25, Employment - 0.2, Suppliers’ Delivery Times - 0.15, Stock of Items Purchased - 0.1, with the 
Delivery Times index inverted so that it moves in a comparable direction. 

Diffusion indexes have the properties of leading indicators and are convenient summary measures showing the prevailing direction 
of change. An index reading above 50 indicates an overall increase in that variable, below 50 an overall decrease.  

Markit do not revise underlying survey data after first publication, but seasonal adjustment factors may be revised from time to time 
as appropriate which will affect the seasonally adjusted data series. Historical data relating to the underlying (unadjusted) numbers, 
first published seasonally adjusted series and subsequently revised data are available to subscribers from Markit. Please contact 
economics@markit.com. 

HSBC:  

Headquartered in London, HSBC is one of the world's largest banking and financial services organisations and one of the industry's 
most valuable brands. We provide a comprehensive range of financial services to around 89 million customers through two 
customer groups, Retail Banking and Wealth Management (formerly Personal Financial Services) and Commercial Banking, and two 
global businesses, Global Banking and Markets and Global Private Banking.    

Our international network covers 87 countries and territories in six geographical regions: Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, 
Middle East and North Africa, North America and Latin America. With listings on the London, Hong Kong, New York, Paris and 
Bermuda stock exchanges, shares in HSBC Holdings plc are held by over 220,000 shareholders in 129 countries and territories.  

About Markit:  
Markit is a leading, global financial information services company with over 2,200 employees. The company provides independent 
data, valuations and trade processing across all asset classes in order to enhance transparency, reduce risk and improve operational 
efficiency. Its client base includes the most significant institutional participants in the financial market place. For more information 
please see www.markit.com

 

 

 

mailto:economics@markit.com
http://www.markit.com/


 

 

About PMIs:  
Purchasing Managers’ Index™ (PMI™) surveys are now available for 32 countries and also for key regions including the Eurozone. 
They are the most closely-watched business surveys in the world, favoured by central banks, financial markets and business 
decision makers for their ability to provide up-to-date, accurate and often unique monthly indicators of economic trends. To learn 
more go to www.markit.com/economics
 
The intellectual property rights to the HSBC Flash China Manufacturing PMI™ provided herein is owned by Markit 

Economics Limited. Any unauthorised use, including but not limited to copying, distributing, transmitting or otherwise of 

any data appearing is not permitted without Markit’s prior consent. Markit shall not have any liability, duty or obligation 

for or relating to the content or information (“data”) contained herein, any errors, inaccuracies, omissions or delays in the 

data, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. In no event shall Markit be liable for any special, incidental, or 

consequential damages, arising out of the use of the data. Purchasing Managers' Index™ and PMI™ are trade marks of 

Markit Economics Limited, HSBC use the above marks under license. Markit and the Markit logo are registered trade 

marks of Markit Group Limited. 

 

  

 

http://www.markit.com/economics

